mod-udp-goodput.md, before:

# Module UDP Goodput

## Description

Optimized for Goodput measurement. Packet loss and packet reordering is is not
focus of this module.

All UDP features of nuttcp should be supported, e.g.: `nuttcp -l8972 -T30 -u
-w4m -Ru -i1 <dest>`


## Features

- Payload pattern: zeroized, random ASCII, full rand
- Unicast and Multicast Support
- Parallel Workers (thread support)
- Goodput Target Bandwidth (user can select the nominal egress bandwidth)
- Burst Mode Support


## Configuration

```
{
  # per default one TCP transmitter is started, to spawn exactly
	# to much threads are cores are available use "cores".
	# Use "threads" if you want to fully utilize all virtual cores,
	# including hyperthreads.
	# If the system has several sockets, all sockets are utilized for
	# "cores" and "threads".
	"worker" : "1"

  # FIME: the server MUST dictate the port, because the port MAY
	# be used by another service. See the mod-tcp-goodput.
	# so the following is not wrong and must be updted
  # port for listening and sending. If worker is larger as 1 subsequent
	# ports are used. E.g. 7001, 7002, ...
	# "port" : "7000"

	# payload pattern. Default is zeroized because we want to fullfill
	# the pipe and offload as much as possible. 
	"payload-pattern" : "zeroized"

	# limits the outgoing rate. Normally this is unlimited (value "0"): mapago
	# send as much data as possible without further configuration. The rate
	# can be given in any SI/IEC prefix form: 23mbit, 23mibit, ... just everything
	# as well it is unambiguous.
	# Note that rate depends on the "packet-length" parameter.
	"rate" : "0"

  # if rate is != 0 the rate-burst can be given. Normally the spacing between
	# packets is equal for a given calculated target rate. With burst given a burst
	# pattern can be given. These packets are transmitted without any pause.
	"rate-burst": "0"

	# The packet size to be send. The default is 512 byte, IPv4/IPv6 as well as UDP
	# is not considered. This is just the payload size. 512 byte is considered safe:
	# assume IPv4 the "minimum maximum reassembly" buffer size is 576 byte as specified
	# in RFC 1122. Minus IPv4 header (20) byte and UDP header (8) byte 512 is fine. Note
	# that due to IPv4 options the available payload can be smaller. But this is more
	# theoretical and 512 byte is fine.
	# To get line rate you probably want to increase this to jumbo mtu 9k/16k packet size.
	"packet-length" : "512"

  # set the DSCP value, unmodified will not modify the default
	"dscp" : "unmodified"

  # is OS default ttl
	"ttl" : "unmodified"

  # Can be human or json
	"output-format" : "human"

  # ordinary write systemcall is used for transfer data. This has no zero copy
	# optimization but it is safe on all operating systems.
	# "mmap-sendfile" and friends can later added.
	"tx-method" : "write"

}
```

## Not Supported

- Packet loss and reordering detection
- Read payload from STDIN or from file

# Result Data

The data set which is generated locally (client) and foreign (server) generated
data sets.

## Client

The client is the sending host

`result-client.json`

## Server

The server is the receiving host

`result-server.json` is created at the server side and transfered to the client by

- using USB stick and copy the JSON file to the client
- or (more easy) by using the remote option and transfer the data automatically
	to the client

```
{
  "measurement" : [
		{
			"packet-timestamp-first" : "2017-05-14T23:55:00.123456789Z",
			"packet-timestamp-last" : "2017-05-14T23:55:10.123456789Z",
			"received-bytes" : "23923932",
			"received-packets" : "1922",
		}
	]
}
```


# Output Format

Based on the previous data (result data) the human and json data is generated.

### Human


### JSON

The JSON format must be compatible between all peers. But not all Operating Systems
implement or provide the same functionality. Therefore the output format is splitted
into a mandatory and a optional part. All fields in the mandatory set must be available
for all compatible implementations.

```
{
  "core" : {

	},
	"aux" : {
	}
}

```

# Internal and Implementation Specifics

# Memory Mapping

To reduce overhead the pages are pre-allocated and pre-filled with data.
Sendfile is used to send the data to the socket to reduce copy overhead.  This
zerocopy mechanism must is disabled by default to gain a broad operating system
support.

Probably a `sendfile`, `mmap`, `write` **method** flag can be used. write as the
default value.

Commit message:

Outdated: Different statements by different files
Signed-off-by: Simon Georg Fronhöfer <s.fronhoefer@campus.tu-berlin.de>

mod-udp-goodput.md, after:

# Module UDP Goodput

## Description

Optimized for Goodput measurement. Packet loss and packet reordering is is not
focus of this module.

All UDP features of nuttcp should be supported, e.g.: `nuttcp -l8972 -T30 -u
-w4m -Ru -i1 <dest>`


## Features

- Payload pattern: zeroized, random ASCII, full rand
- Unicast and Multicast Support
- Parallel Workers (thread support)
- Goodput Target Bandwidth (user can select the nominal egress bandwidth)
- Burst Mode Support


## Configuration

```
{
  # per default one TCP transmitter is started, to spawn exactly
	# to much threads are cores are available use "cores".
	# Use "threads" if you want to fully utilize all virtual cores,
	# including hyperthreads.
	# If the system has several sockets, all sockets are utilized for
	# "cores" and "threads".
	"worker" : "1"


  # NOTE: I think the port field is outdated here.
  # In control-protocol.md the Measurement Start Request says
  #  # the module specific configuration
  # "data" = {
  #     # see protocol specific section, e.g.
  #     # mod-tcp-goodput.md and "Measurement Start Request"
  # }
  # in this file the port is part of this configuration, but the port is advertised
  # in the Meausrement Start Reply not Meausrement Start Request
  # FIME: the server MUST dictate the port, because the port MAY
	# be used by another service. See the mod-tcp-goodput.
	# so the following is not wrong and must be updted
  # port for listening and sending. If worker is larger as 1 subsequent
	# ports are used. E.g. 7001, 7002, ...
	# "port" : "7000"

	# payload pattern. Default is zeroized because we want to fullfill
	# the pipe and offload as much as possible. 
	"payload-pattern" : "zeroized"

	# limits the outgoing rate. Normally this is unlimited (value "0"): mapago
	# send as much data as possible without further configuration. The rate
	# can be given in any SI/IEC prefix form: 23mbit, 23mibit, ... just everything
	# as well it is unambiguous.
	# Note that rate depends on the "packet-length" parameter.
	"rate" : "0"

  # if rate is != 0 the rate-burst can be given. Normally the spacing between
	# packets is equal for a given calculated target rate. With burst given a burst
	# pattern can be given. These packets are transmitted without any pause.
	"rate-burst": "0"

	# The packet size to be send. The default is 512 byte, IPv4/IPv6 as well as UDP
	# is not considered. This is just the payload size. 512 byte is considered safe:
	# assume IPv4 the "minimum maximum reassembly" buffer size is 576 byte as specified
	# in RFC 1122. Minus IPv4 header (20) byte and UDP header (8) byte 512 is fine. Note
	# that due to IPv4 options the available payload can be smaller. But this is more
	# theoretical and 512 byte is fine.
	# To get line rate you probably want to increase this to jumbo mtu 9k/16k packet size.
	"packet-length" : "512"

  # set the DSCP value, unmodified will not modify the default
	"dscp" : "unmodified"

  # is OS default ttl
	"ttl" : "unmodified"

  # Can be human or json
	"output-format" : "human"

  # ordinary write systemcall is used for transfer data. This has no zero copy
	# optimization but it is safe on all operating systems.
	# "mmap-sendfile" and friends can later added.
	"tx-method" : "write"

}
```

## Not Supported

- Packet loss and reordering detection
- Read payload from STDIN or from file

# Result Data

The data set which is generated locally (client) and foreign (server) generated
data sets.

## Client

The client is the sending host

`result-client.json`

## Server

The server is the receiving host

`result-server.json` is created at the server side and transfered to the client by

- using USB stick and copy the JSON file to the client
- or (more easy) by using the remote option and transfer the data automatically
	to the client

```
{
  "measurement" : [
		{
			"packet-timestamp-first" : "2017-05-14T23:55:00.123456789Z",
			"packet-timestamp-last" : "2017-05-14T23:55:10.123456789Z",
			"received-bytes" : "23923932",
			"received-packets" : "1922",
		}
	]
}
```


# Output Format

Based on the previous data (result data) the human and json data is generated.

### Human


### JSON

The JSON format must be compatible between all peers. But not all Operating Systems
implement or provide the same functionality. Therefore the output format is splitted
into a mandatory and a optional part. All fields in the mandatory set must be available
for all compatible implementations.

```
{
  "core" : {

	},
	"aux" : {
	}
}

```

# Internal and Implementation Specifics

# Memory Mapping

To reduce overhead the pages are pre-allocated and pre-filled with data.
Sendfile is used to send the data to the socket to reduce copy overhead.  This
zerocopy mechanism must is disabled by default to gain a broad operating system
support.

Probably a `sendfile`, `mmap`, `write` **method** flag can be used. write as the
default value.
